Add ERC: Account Abstraction Recovery Interface (#1046)
ethereum/ERCs: ERCS/erc-xxxx.md

---
eip: xxxx
title: Universal Account Recovery Standard (UARS)
description: A standard method to recover a smart account ownership.
author: Artem Chystiakov (@arvolear) <artem@rarilabs.com>
discussions-to: https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/eip-xxxx-universal-account-recovery-standard-uars/24080
status: Draft
type: Standards Track
category: ERC
created: 2025-05-07
---

## Abstract

Introduce a universal account abstraction recovery mechanism `recoverOwnership(newOwner, provider, proof)` along with recovery provider management functions for smart accounts to securely update their owner.

## Motivation

> Account abstraction and the "contractization" of EOAs are important Ethereum milestones for improving on-chain UX and off-chain security. A wide range of smart accounts emerge daily, aiming to simplify the steep onboarding curve for new users. The ultimate smart account experience is to never ask them to deal with private keys, yet still allow for full account control and ownership recovery. With the developments in the ZKAI and ZK2FA fields, settling on a common mechanism may even open the doors for "account recovery provider marketplaces" to emerge.

Reviewer: Could you please expand the meaning of this ZKAI and ZK2FA- You should expand abbreviations the first time they are used.

Author: If a reader doesn't understand what ZKAI and ZK2FA stand for, they are not the target audience of this EIP.

     * @param provider the address of a recovery provider.
     * @param proof an encoded proof of recovery (ZKP/ZKAI, signature, etc).
     * @return magic the `MAGIC` if recovery is successful, otherwise any other value.
     */
    function recoverOwnership(
        address newOwner,
        address provider,
        bytes memory proof
    ) external returns (bytes4 magic);
}
```

## Rationale

The UARS is expected to work with *any* account abstraction standard to allow for maximum account recovery flexibility. Whether it is [EIP-4337](./eip-4337.md) or [EIP-7702](./eip-7702.md), a particular smart account provider may support account recovery by simply implementing a common interface.

The standard does not define access control rules on `addRecoveryProvider` and `removeRecoveryProvider` functions, instead prioritizing compatibility with a variety of smart accounts. 

## Backwards Compatibility

This EIP is fully backwards compatible.

## Security Considerations

There are several security concerns to point out:

- It is up to a smart account developer to properly access control `addRecoveryProvider` and `removeRecoveryProvider` functions.

> - A smart account user may be "fished" to add a malicious recovery provider to their account (a provider may be an ERC20 token in disguise). Then by calling a `recoverOwnership` function, a `proof` may be concealed as a `transfer` operation that drains a user's account.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- A smart account user may be "phished" to add a malicious recovery provider to their account (a provider may be an ERC20 token in disguise). Then by calling the `recoverOwnership` function, a `proof` may be concealed as a `transfer` operation that drains a user's account.
```

Author: Thanks for this one!
